Welcome to the section on inheritance in this section we will discuss about inheritance with a few examples.
We would look at what this method overloading and ultimate are all writing.
And also you would discuss a little bit about different with able to talk whether a superclass reference
where people can call an object of the subclass.
And we would also discuss about multiple hitter's inheritance in Java.
So those are the topics that we would discuss as part of this particular section played with inheritance
inheritance is a very simple concept.
So basically I have a class called actor which has an act method we call the lead character as a hero
in Indian movies.
Typically actor for example can act.
So he would be able to act really well.
What we are doing here is we are extending the actor using extents actors so public class hero extends
as dirt.
So that's how we extend the acting class and create a new class called Hero.
And we're adding new functionality to the hero class that he would be able to fight.
So now a hero would be able to both act as well as fight.
So he would inherit the act from the actor and he would be able to do the fight for his implementation.
You can look at it down here so I can create a hero hero is a new hero and I can do hero not act and
hero not fight as well.
So he nailed the method from the acting class and he added his own Stoff fight.
So he does not act and he'd rather fight without a problem.
And I'm extending actor game and create a new one called comedy and he performs comedy so you can see
that the comedy has a new feature called new method or new behavior called BAHFEN comedy.
The reason why we use inheritance in Jawa for that matter in any object oriented programming language
is kind of kind of finding common ground between a number of classes.
If you look at Jawa you have aerialist which is actually extending abstract list and which is extending
abstract collection all the functionality that is common to all all the collection time and that's basically
a list and the set are inside abstract collection if you look at the abstract collection as it does
basic things so it has contained method to definition and things like that it contains the basic definitions.
If you look at the list it can't abstract list this would contain the common functionality for all the
list classes and any list contains this week implementation with every.
So if you look at the Java internally so aerialist is a good example of where we use inheritance to
the extent abstractly list.
And if you go to the abstract list abstract list in its extent abstract collection we would discover
what abstract classes a little later but for now you're only reusing some of the functionality from
abstract list in abstract collection and from abstract collection at least this is a good example of
inheritance in Java library.
I mean in the Java API itself again or even on the map side there's a hierarchy present so you have
a hash map which is extending abstract maps or abstract map has a common functionality and the hash
map has all the hash map specific functionality.
So this is another example of inheritance in Java.
As you can see in this particular hierarchy the abstract map hierarchies are really complex so you have
a number of classes implementing and extending the abstract class and using the common functionality
which is defined in an abstract class.
So you have a hash map you have I mean there are classes even extending hash map linked hash map and
things like that.
So jelly uses inheritance extensively to extend functionality of a particular class C hash map extents
abstract map in this relationship abstract map is a superclass and hash map is a subclass subclass extends
superclass.
Similarly if you look at the linked hash map this extends hash map.
So what do functionality which is then in the superclass that is the hash map will be inherited by the
linked hash map and linked hash map can extend that functionality as it sees fit.
Next let's let's discuss about method overloading.
What is method overloading method overloading is basically under the method with the same name but different.
Bob ammeters there are two ways you can do overloading one way you can do it is in the same place.
So for example this class fool has a do it taking integer number as a parameter as well as a string
string as a parameter.
So there is overloading because this is basically the same method it with different parameters it's
exactly the same signature public or public ward but different arguments defined here.
So that's one example.
The other example is when you overload something from a subclass.
So what I'm doing is class bar extent foo and I'm adding another one.
Do it float number.
So in addition to the existing do it with number and string.
What we're doing is we are adding in a do it with number.
This is basically overloading from a subclass so Bart is a subclass of fool and I am extending it to
add a new over loaded method called it accepting an argument flawed.
So autoloading is extensively used in the Java API is if you look at the constrictors of a hash map
for example if you bring up the hash map class and you look at the constructors for hash killer hash
map you would see there would be a number of contributors.
There's a default constructor which would typically use the result of constructor which accepts that
in the initial capacity basically defining how many elements you are expecting to be there in the hash
map and also load factor.
This is one constructor.
This is not a constructor.
This is another constructor but different arguments.
So this defines two arguments.
This is zero arguments into one argument and even if you look at the base collections you have these
methods called add oil and add or let a specific index.
These are all methods which are defined as overriding inside the collection as well.
So basically those are the examples for overloading in Java.
Let's quickly move on to metal or writing.
So what you are writing is basically all writing a code inside the superclass.
So basically I would create a method in the subclass which has exactly the same signature including
the arguments.
So if you look at this bar here it has exactly the same signature including argument.
This method does not have any arguments.
This also does not have any argument.
So I am all for writing the method.
So we are not overloading it or loading it is when this had a pattern or a date has a different part
meter or something.
All writing is when you have the same signature including the paramita.
So what would happen is when they create an instance of that and I call the block method then it would
execute the implementation which is present inside the character so it will override the implementation
which is present in the animal class.
You would see metal overweighting being extensively used in Java API as well.
For example if you look at the hash map implementation there is a definition for public in size the
size metal has a definition which or right whatever it is defined in an abstract map hash map extant
abstract map.
And there's a default definition for public incise in the abstract map which is all we're in by hash
map and similar to that in collections you'd see in any number of examples of or writing.
So to summarize all writing is when you have exactly the same signature inside including the parameters
overloading is when you have the same name for the method in the same region.
But the arguments are different the type of the arguments are different.
You cannot overload by just giving it a different parameter name.
No that's not possible.
The type of the parameter should be really different.
So that's about overloading and or writing.
The next thing we want to look at is whether a superclass reference where you can hold an object of
the subclass.
So over here you you look at Object object.
This is saying a new he to it.
Is it allowed.
Yes it is allowed because object is the superclass of all Java classes.
And I can hold a reference to the subclass hero is a subclass of object right.
So object can hold the reference to zero.
So similar to that we are creating an actor here extending actor and a comedian extending actor.
And you can see here that in a reference variable of type actor I can hold a comedian.
I can hold a hero.
However through this particular act of reference you can only exude the methods which are defined in
actor.
Or you can only exude the methods which are inside the actor plus you not be able to extend.
I mean you will not be able to use the method which represented the hero or the comedy in classes.
The next thing you want to talk about is multiple inheritance multiple inheritance can result in complex
programs and that's why Java was not to support multiple inheritance.
If you look at declasse.
I mean if you implement if you look at the popular object oriented programming language before Java
C++ support multiple inheritance you can have a class dog which extant animal and pet but not in Java.
In Java you can create an inheritance chain to bed is extending animal dogs extending pets a dog existence
bed but extent animals that is ok but a dog cannot extend to classes animal pet at the same time.
That's a compilation error.
So in Java multiple inheritance is not allowed but the inheritance hierarchy is allowed didn't inherit
entirely deplaned in Jawa earlier where we look at abstract collection abstract list and aerialist similar
to that.
Oh here we are seeing dog.
Animal.
That's an inheritance chain.
You cannot have the same class extending to different classes at the same time.
That's not allowed in Joe until we looked at a lot of things related to inheritance.
All the things that we have discussed in this video are kind of the basics of inheritance.
The real crux of inheritance will be when we talk about advanced Object-Oriented concepts in the future
vidio is some kind of dig this as a reference for our diabetic reference for inheritance.
And there are a lot of stuff on inheritance coming up in the subsequent years as well until the next
review.
But my.